Windows as entities section (#556)
bevyengine/bevy-website: content/news/2023-03-04-bevy-0.10/index.md

![iOS emulator running Bevy](ios%20emulator.png)

## Windows as Entities

<div class="release-feature-authors">authors: @aceeri, @Weibye, @cart</div>

> Todays news on the crusade to make *Everything into Entities*, windows are now handled as entities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today's news on the crusade to make *Everything into Entities*, windows are now handled as entities.
```

> You might think this is a bit overkill, but what was the point of the `Windows` resource? To associate data we knew already about the window to a unique identifier as well as provide a way to phone in and ask for changes to it. Now hmm... unique identifier, associated data, where have I heared this before?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might think this is a bit overkill, but what was the point of the `Windows` resource? To associate data we knew already about the window to a unique identifier as well as provide a way to phone in and ask for changes to it. Now hmm... unique identifier, associated data, where have I heard this before?
```

> Using `Window` as a component allows us (and you!) to extend the logic behind windows further without having to manage the `WindowId` yourself, instead you can just query for a window with a marker component if you want to identify a specific one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using `Window` as a component allows us (and you!) to extend the logic behind windows further without having to manage the `WindowId` yourself, instead, you can just query for a window with a marker component if you want to identify a specific one.
```

```rust
fn windows_go_brr(mut commands: Commands) {
    // A new window will be created by any entity with a `Window` component
    let window = commands.spawn(Window {
        title: "My window :D".to_owned(),
        ..default()
    }).id();
}

fn modify_windows(mut windows: Query<&mut Window>) {
    for window in &mut windows {
        // and modifying fields on the `Window` component will update the window accordingly just the same way!
        window.title = "My improved window! :D".to_owned();
    }
}
```

> This gives us the expressiveness of the ECS while also improving readability/discoverability of how to create, use, and close windows. And any feature we add to entities (relations 🌈, modding support for modifying windows, etc.) will naturally extend to anything that is one.

Reviewer 2: "modding support for modifying windows" is unclear to me.

Author: Yeah I'm not entirely sure what I was going for here, I'm just gonna keep it simple at just relations.

<div class="release-feature-authors">authors: @aceeri, @Weibye, @cart</div>

On today's news about the crusade of **X as Entities**, windows are now entities with a [`Window`] component.

You might think this is a bit overkill, but more complex behaviors around windows required extra state management in some fashion. Which tended to be either other resources (which ended up being more brittle to usecases of multiple windows) or in components on entities (which begs the question, why even have a special case?)

This gives us the expressiveness of the ECS while also improving readability/discoverability of how to create, use, and close windows. As well as benefit from any feature we add to the ECS (e.g. relations 🌈).

Plus now that [`Window`] is a component, changing the title of a window is the same for both initialising and modifying, no fuss!

```rust
fn windows_go_brr(mut commands: Commands) {
    // A new window will be created by any entity with a `Window` component
    let window = commands.spawn(Window {
        title: "My window :D".to_owned(),
        ..default()
    }).id();
}

fn modify_windows(mut windows: Query<&mut Window>) {
    for window in &mut windows {

>         // and modifying fields on the `Window` component will update the window accordingly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        // Modifying fields on the `Window` component will update the window accordingly
```

        window.title = "My improved window! :D".to_owned();
    }
}

fn destroy_them(mut commands: Commands, windows: Query<Entity, With<Window>>) {
    for entity in &mut windows {

>         // and closing a window can be done with despawning the window entity!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        // Closing a window can be done by despawning the window entity!
```
